backend/vault/README.md, before:

# Rclone with Vault Support

> [Rclone](https://rclone.org/) is a command-line program to manage files on cloud storage.

We are developing an Rclone backend for Vault Digital Preservation System
([Pilot](https://archive-it.org/blog/post/archive-it-partner-news-september-2021/)),
developed at the [Internet Archive](https://archive.org/) and release versions here.

This is work in progress and we are happy about feedback: [vault@archive.org](mailto:vault@archive.org).

With this version of Rclone, you can **list your collections** in Vault and
**upload files and folders** conveniently from **local disk** or other **cloud
providers**. We are basing our releases on the latest version of the Rclone
upstream project.

## Download Rclone with Vault Support

Download the latest release from:

[https://github.com/internetarchive/rclone/releases/latest](https://github.com/internetarchive/rclone/releases/latest)

We currently support the following operating systems and platforms:

* Linux (ARM64)
* Linux (Intel)
* MacOS (Intel)
* MacOS (M1)
* Windows (ARM64)
* Windows (Intel)

Releases follow a versioning scheme that includes the rclone version, timestamp and commit, e.g. like:
`v1.57.0-vault-20220627142057-e4798bf85`.

Drop the downloaded binary into your
[PATH](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PATH_(variable)). You may want to rename
the binary to a more convenient name; you may also need to set executable
permissions:

```shell
$ mv rclone_1.57.0-vault-20220701222624-3e2968a05_Darwin_x86_64 rclone
$ chmod +x rclone
$ rclone version
rclone v1.57.0-vault-20220702021915-4e51866c5
- os/version: ubuntu 20.04 (64 bit)
- os/kernel: 5.13.0-52-generic (x86_64)
- os/type: linux
- os/arch: amd64
- go/version: go1.18.3
- go/linking: dynamic
- go/tags: none
```

## Configuration

There is a single configuration file for rclone, located by default under:

```
~/.config/rclone/rclone.conf
```

You can also ask rclone, where your configuration file is located:

```
$ rclone config file
Configuration file is stored at:
/Users/fdr/.config/rclone/rclone.conf
```

In your rclone configuration file, add the following section for Vault (the
section name is arbitrary; it will be used to refer to the remote in commands,
e.g. `rclone ls vault:/x/y/z`).

```ini
# The section name is used to refer to the remote on the command line. The
# `type` needs to be `vault`, however.
[vault]
type = vault
username = roosevelt
password = 4tJ3RGIDZw4P
endpoint = https://vault.archive-it.org/vault/api/
```

To check if everything works, you can e.g. run `rclone config userinfo` to
display information about the configured Vault user:

```shell
$ rclone config userinfo vault:
DefaultFixityFrequency: TWICE_YEARLY
             FirstName:
             LastLogin: 2022-07-02T00:29:20.364793Z
              LastName:
          Organization: SuperOrg
                  Plan: Basic
            QuotaBytes: 1099511627776
              Username: roosevelt
```

## Known Limitations

This is a working prototype and while continuously tested against our
development and QA Vault instances, limitations and rough edges remain.

* read and write support **only on the command line** level (mount and serve are read only)
* currently, if you copy data from another cloud service to vault, data will be
  stored temporarily on the machine where rclone runs

## Example Commands

Rclone has [great docs on its own](https://rclone.org/docs/); the following are
just a few typical usage examples.

### Quota and Usage

* [x] about

```
$ rclone about vault:/
Total:   1 TiB
Used:    2.891 GiB
Free:    1021.109 GiB
Objects: 19.955k
```

* [x] config userinfo

```
$ rclone config userinfo vault:/
DefaultFixityFrequency: TWICE_YEARLY
             FirstName:
             LastLogin: 2022-06-14T17:09:11.222339Z
              LastName:
          Organization: SuperOrg
                  Plan: Basic
            QuotaBytes: 1099511627776
              Username: admin
```

### Listing Files

* [x] ls
* [x] lsl
* [x] lsf
* [x] lsd, lsd -R
* [x] lsjson

```shell
$ rclone ls vault:/
        8 C00/VERSION
        0 C1/abc.txt
     3241 C123/about.go
     4511 C123/backend.go
     3748 C123/bucket.go
     3683 C123/bucket_test.go
     2416 C123/cat.go
     2829 C123/copy.go
    10913 C123/help.go
      886 C123/ls.go
      ...

$ rclone lsl vault:/
        0 2022-06-08 23:49:10.000000000 C1/abc.txt
        8 2022-05-31 16:17:21.000000000 C00/VERSION
     3241 2022-05-31 17:13:45.000000000 C123/about.go
     4511 2022-05-31 17:17:10.000000000 C123/backend.go
     3748 2022-05-31 18:18:36.000000000 C123/bucket.go
     3683 2022-05-31 18:20:44.000000000 C123/bucket_test.go
     2416 2022-05-31 17:18:42.000000000 C123/cat.go
     2829 2022-05-31 17:09:35.000000000 C123/copy.go
    10913 2022-05-31 17:27:17.000000000 C123/help.go
      886 2022-05-31 17:06:59.000000000 C123/ls.go
      ...

$ rclone lsf vault:/
.Trash-1000/
C00/
C1/
C123/
C40/
C41/
C42/
C43/
C50/
C51/
...

$ rclone lsd vault:/
           0 2022-05-31 16:05:24         0 .Trash-1000
           0 2022-05-31 16:17:05         2 C00
           0 2022-06-08 23:49:06         1 C1
           0 2022-05-31 17:06:59        25 C123
           0 2022-06-07 15:27:55         1 C40
           0 2022-06-07 15:35:33         1 C41
           0 2022-06-07 15:44:15         1 C42
           0 2022-06-08 11:20:18         1 C43
           0 2022-06-08 13:09:09         1 C50
           0 2022-06-08 14:34:18         2 C51
           ...

$ rclone lsd -R vault:/C40
           0 2022-06-07 15:33:32         1 myblog
           0 2022-06-07 15:33:36         0 myblog/templates
           ...

$ rclone lsjson vault:/ | head -10
[
{"Path":".Trash-1000","Name":".Trash-1000","Size":0,"MimeType":"inode/directory","ModTime":"2022-05-31T14:05:24Z","IsDir":true,"ID":"1.12"},
{"Path":"C00","Name":"C00","Size":0,"MimeType":"inode/directory","ModTime":"2022-05-31T14:17:05Z","IsDir":true,"ID":"1.25"},
{"Path":"C1","Name":"C1","Size":0,"MimeType":"inode/directory","ModTime":"2022-06-08T21:49:06Z","IsDir":true,"ID":"1.38600"},
{"Path":"C123","Name":"C123","Size":0,"MimeType":"inode/directory","ModTime":"2022-05-31T15:06:59Z","IsDir":true,"ID":"1.48"},
{"Path":"C40","Name":"C40","Size":0,"MimeType":"inode/directory","ModTime":"2022-06-07T13:27:55Z","IsDir":true,"ID":"1.665"},
{"Path":"C41","Name":"C41","Size":0,"MimeType":"inode/directory","ModTime":"2022-06-07T13:35:33Z","IsDir":true,"ID":"1.674"},
{"Path":"C42","Name":"C42","Size":0,"MimeType":"inode/directory","ModTime":"2022-06-07T13:44:15Z","IsDir":true,"ID":"1.683"},
{"Path":"C43","Name":"C43","Size":0,"MimeType":"inode/directory","ModTime":"2022-06-08T09:20:18Z","IsDir":true,"ID":"1.698"},
{"Path":"C50","Name":"C50","Size":0,"MimeType":"inode/directory","ModTime":"2022-06-08T11:09:09Z","IsDir":true,"ID":"1.713"},
...
```

### Listing Files and Folders as a Tree

Similar to the linux [tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tree_(command))
command, rclone can render files and folder as a tree as well. Note that this
only starts to render the output when all the relevant files have been
inspected. Hence this command can take a while on large folders.

Options: `-d`, `-s`, ...

```shell
$ rclone tree vault:/C100
/
├── a
│   └── myblog
│       ├── content
│       │   └── blog
│       └── templates
├── b
│   ├── _index.md
│   ├── base.html
│   ├── blog-page.html
│   ├── blog.html
│   ├── config.toml
│   ├── first.md
│   ├── index.html
│   ├── second.md
│   └── third.txt
├── c
│   └── myblog
│       ├── content
│       │   └── blog
│       └── templates
└── d
    ├── _index.md
    ├── base.html
    ├── blog-page.html
    ├── blog.html
    ├── config.toml
    ├── first.md
    ├── index.html
    ├── second.md
    └── third.txt

12 directories, 18 files
```

### Creating Collections and Folder

Collections and folders are handled transparently (e.g. first path component
will be the name of the collection, and anything below: folders).

* [x] mkdir

```shell
$ rclone mkdir vault:/X1
```

By default, behaviour is similar to `mkdir -p`, i.e. parents are created, if
they do not exist:

```shell
$ rclone mkdir vault:/X2/a/b/c
```

### Depositing / Uploading files and directories

* [x] copy
* [x] copyto
* [x] copyurl

Copy operations to vault will create directories as needed:

```shell
$ rclone copy ~/tmp/somedir vault:/ExampleCollection/somedir
```

If you configure other remotes, like Dropbox, Google Drive, Amazon S3, etc. you
can copy files directly from there to Vault (note that currently the
transferred files need to be stored temporarily on the machine that runs
vault).

```shell
$ rclone copy dropbox:/iris-data.csv vault:/C104
```

#### Resuming an Interrupted Deposit

It is possible to resume an interrupted deposit.

Assuming we want to copy local path "A" to vault "B" - we can start a deposit by
copying files. You'll see the deposit id logged to the terminal (e.g. 742):

```shell
$ rclone copy A vault:/B
<5>NOTICE: vault (v1): deposit registered: 742
...
```

You can interrupt the deposit e.g. with CTRL-C. To resume, add the
`--vault-resume-deposit-id` flag:

```shell
$ rclone copy A vault:/B --vault-resume-deposit-id 742
```

Note that resuming only makes sense when the source and destination path are the same.

### Sync

* [x] sync

Sync is similar to copy, can be used to successively sync file to vault.

```
$ rclone sync ~/tmp/somedir vault:/ExampleCollection/somedir
```

### Downloading Files and Folders

* [x] copy

Copy can be used to copy a file or folder from vault to local disk.

```
$ rclone copy vault:/ExampleCollection/somedir ~/tmp/somecopy
```

### Streaming Files

* [x] cat

```
$ rclone cat vault:/ExampleCollection/somedir/f.txt
```

### Deleting Files and Folders

* [x] delete

```
$ rclone delete vault:/C123/a/f.txt
```

A whole folder or collection can be deleted as well.

```
$ rclone delete vault:/C123
```

### Show Disk Usage

* [x] ncdu

Similar to [ncdu](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ncdu), rclone can show what
dirs consume most disk space.

```
$ rclone ncdu vault:/
```

Works for folders as well. Running this against large collections may take a while.

### Listing Hashes

* [x] md5sum
* [x] sha1sum
* [x] hashsum

Vault keeps track of MD5, SHA1 and SHA256 of objects and rclone is natively interested in those.

```
$ rclone md5sum vault:/
d41d8cd98f00b204e9800998ecf8427e  C103/testing-touch.txt
127a60cc6951b43d8ec9f2fbc566f53d  C102/base.org
d6c43639164bd159609fde47ae1477cc  C102/uuuu.txt
2b26b72ff91209f42e05a69c5bbff249  240/magentacloud.zip
c4b44a7043b45e0e03664827874739c9  240/Zwyns_Lbova_2018.pdf
275cc2f7f947d45c8a632dab13a8522c  240/midas.pdf
...

$ rclone sha1sum vault:/C100
a2b0031c595250996b9fd671ba543a5178a86c02  d/blog.html
e38c7b27a15bb492766686bc61cf27765f34f97e  d/base.html
785096246f488bce480e8fadcd7d4e7863c08773  d/config.toml
be3ad0ee54239c370d616b60f02736dd10137dc7  d/second.md
...

$ rclone hashsum sha256 vault:/C100
59739d7135e335183b260fa83428df7d2fba108f8398a4a21ef1da706315f2f1  d/blog.html
3aafe178d8e5bb9994bc2ecc0feb92eb63adc3023fdf0901c10bbe906542d05b  d/base.html
0d0a57a6ecb72d8f9fffb6b092037a99490d1fe20a30675b29caa0e24008dd28  d/blog-page.html
a6cfd6fc383e5856da20444a633ee5e4c23b603b27f807459186118035ed2441  d/first.md
4d3eedec138894549365ce82b54e39c79af7da4146d4d39855756623c5aad8e5  d/second.md
...
```

### Vault Specific Commands

Backends can implement custom commands.

#### Deposit Status (ds, dst, deposit-status)

For vault we currently have a single command, that returns the deposit status,
given the deposit id (e.g. 742).

```shell
$ rclone backend ds vault:/ 742
```

# Misc

## Building the custom rclone binary from source

Building requires the Go toolchain installed.

```
$ git clone git@github.com:internetarchive/rclone.git
$ cd rclone
$ git checkout ia-wt-1168
$ make
$ ./rclone version
rclone v1.59.0-beta.6244.66b9ef95f.sample
- os/version: ubuntu 20.04 (64 bit)
- os/kernel: 5.13.0-48-generic (x86_64)
- os/type: linux
- os/arch: amd64
- go/version: go1.18.3
- go/linking: dynamic
- go/tags: none
```

## Debug output

To show debug output, append `-v` or `-vv` to the command.

## TODO

A few issues to address.

* [x] issue with `max-depth`
* [ ] ncdu performance
* [x] resumable deposits
* [ ] cli access to various reports (fixity, ...)
* [ ] test harness
* [ ] full read-write support for "mount" and "serve" mode

## Forum

* [x] Trying to move from "atexit" to "Shutdown", but that would require additional
changes, discussing it here:
[https://forum.rclone.org/t/support-for-returning-and-error-from-atexit-handlers-and-batch-uploads/31336](https://forum.rclone.org/t/support-for-returning-and-error-from-atexit-handlers-and-batch-uploads/31336)

Commit message:

vault: note for MacOS users

backend/vault/README.md, after:

# Rclone with Vault Support

> [Rclone](https://rclone.org/) is a command-line program to manage files on cloud storage.

We are developing an Rclone backend for Vault Digital Preservation System
([Pilot](https://archive-it.org/blog/post/archive-it-partner-news-september-2021/)),
developed at the [Internet Archive](https://archive.org/) and release versions here.

This is work in progress and we are happy about feedback: [vault@archive.org](mailto:vault@archive.org).

With this version of Rclone, you can **list your collections** in Vault and
**upload files and folders** conveniently from **local disk** or other **cloud
providers**. We are basing our releases on the latest version of the Rclone
upstream project.

## Download Rclone with Vault Support

Download the latest release from:

[https://github.com/internetarchive/rclone/releases/latest](https://github.com/internetarchive/rclone/releases/latest)

> **Note MacOS users**: We recommended to download the binary with [curl](https://curl.se/) or [wget](https://www.gnu.org/software/wget/), like:

```
$ curl --output rclone -sL https://github.com/internetarchive/rclone/releases/download/v1.57.0-vault-20220705203604-61a421a1e/rclone_1.57.0-vault-20220705203604-61a421a1e_Darwin_x86_64
```

We currently support the following operating systems and platforms:

* Linux (ARM64)
* Linux (Intel)
* MacOS (Intel)
* MacOS (M1)
* Windows (ARM64)
* Windows (Intel)

Releases follow a versioning scheme that includes the rclone version, timestamp and commit, e.g. like:
`v1.57.0-vault-20220627142057-e4798bf85`.

Drop the downloaded binary into your
[PATH](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PATH_(variable)). You may want to rename
the binary to a more convenient name; you may also need to set executable
permissions:

```shell
$ mv rclone_1.57.0-vault-20220701222624-3e2968a05_Darwin_x86_64 rclone
$ chmod +x rclone
$ rclone version
rclone v1.57.0-vault-20220702021915-4e51866c5
- os/version: ubuntu 20.04 (64 bit)
- os/kernel: 5.13.0-52-generic (x86_64)
- os/type: linux
- os/arch: amd64
- go/version: go1.18.3
- go/linking: dynamic
- go/tags: none
```

## Configuration

There is a single configuration file for rclone, located by default under:

```
~/.config/rclone/rclone.conf
```

You can also ask rclone, where your configuration file is located:

```
$ rclone config file
Configuration file is stored at:
/Users/fdr/.config/rclone/rclone.conf
```

In your rclone configuration file, add the following section for Vault (the
section name is arbitrary; it will be used to refer to the remote in commands,
e.g. `rclone ls vault:/x/y/z`).

```ini
# The section name is used to refer to the remote on the command line. The
# `type` needs to be `vault`, however.
[vault]
type = vault
username = roosevelt
password = 4tJ3RGIDZw4P
endpoint = https://vault.archive-it.org/vault/api/
```

To check if everything works, you can e.g. run `rclone config userinfo` to
display information about the configured Vault user:

```shell
$ rclone config userinfo vault:
DefaultFixityFrequency: TWICE_YEARLY
             FirstName:
             LastLogin: 2022-07-02T00:29:20.364793Z
              LastName:
          Organization: SuperOrg
                  Plan: Basic
            QuotaBytes: 1099511627776
              Username: roosevelt
```

## Known Limitations

This is a working prototype and while continuously tested against our
development and QA Vault instances, limitations and rough edges remain.

* read and write support **only on the command line** level (mount and serve are read only)
* currently, if you copy data from another cloud service to vault, data will be
  stored temporarily on the machine where rclone runs

## Example Commands

Rclone has [great docs on its own](https://rclone.org/docs/); the following are
just a few typical usage examples.

### Quota and Usage

* [x] about

```
$ rclone about vault:/
Total:   1 TiB
Used:    2.891 GiB
Free:    1021.109 GiB
Objects: 19.955k
```

* [x] config userinfo

```
$ rclone config userinfo vault:/
DefaultFixityFrequency: TWICE_YEARLY
             FirstName:
             LastLogin: 2022-06-14T17:09:11.222339Z
              LastName:
          Organization: SuperOrg
                  Plan: Basic
            QuotaBytes: 1099511627776
              Username: admin
```

### Listing Files

* [x] ls
* [x] lsl
* [x] lsf
* [x] lsd, lsd -R
* [x] lsjson

```shell
$ rclone ls vault:/
        8 C00/VERSION
        0 C1/abc.txt
     3241 C123/about.go
     4511 C123/backend.go
     3748 C123/bucket.go
     3683 C123/bucket_test.go
     2416 C123/cat.go
     2829 C123/copy.go
    10913 C123/help.go
      886 C123/ls.go
      ...

$ rclone lsl vault:/
        0 2022-06-08 23:49:10.000000000 C1/abc.txt
        8 2022-05-31 16:17:21.000000000 C00/VERSION
     3241 2022-05-31 17:13:45.000000000 C123/about.go
     4511 2022-05-31 17:17:10.000000000 C123/backend.go
     3748 2022-05-31 18:18:36.000000000 C123/bucket.go
     3683 2022-05-31 18:20:44.000000000 C123/bucket_test.go
     2416 2022-05-31 17:18:42.000000000 C123/cat.go
     2829 2022-05-31 17:09:35.000000000 C123/copy.go
    10913 2022-05-31 17:27:17.000000000 C123/help.go
      886 2022-05-31 17:06:59.000000000 C123/ls.go
      ...

$ rclone lsf vault:/
.Trash-1000/
C00/
C1/
C123/
C40/
C41/
C42/
C43/
C50/
C51/
...

$ rclone lsd vault:/
           0 2022-05-31 16:05:24         0 .Trash-1000
           0 2022-05-31 16:17:05         2 C00
           0 2022-06-08 23:49:06         1 C1
           0 2022-05-31 17:06:59        25 C123
           0 2022-06-07 15:27:55         1 C40
           0 2022-06-07 15:35:33         1 C41
           0 2022-06-07 15:44:15         1 C42
           0 2022-06-08 11:20:18         1 C43
           0 2022-06-08 13:09:09         1 C50
           0 2022-06-08 14:34:18         2 C51
           ...

$ rclone lsd -R vault:/C40
           0 2022-06-07 15:33:32         1 myblog
           0 2022-06-07 15:33:36         0 myblog/templates
           ...

$ rclone lsjson vault:/ | head -10
[
{"Path":".Trash-1000","Name":".Trash-1000","Size":0,"MimeType":"inode/directory","ModTime":"2022-05-31T14:05:24Z","IsDir":true,"ID":"1.12"},
{"Path":"C00","Name":"C00","Size":0,"MimeType":"inode/directory","ModTime":"2022-05-31T14:17:05Z","IsDir":true,"ID":"1.25"},
{"Path":"C1","Name":"C1","Size":0,"MimeType":"inode/directory","ModTime":"2022-06-08T21:49:06Z","IsDir":true,"ID":"1.38600"},
{"Path":"C123","Name":"C123","Size":0,"MimeType":"inode/directory","ModTime":"2022-05-31T15:06:59Z","IsDir":true,"ID":"1.48"},
{"Path":"C40","Name":"C40","Size":0,"MimeType":"inode/directory","ModTime":"2022-06-07T13:27:55Z","IsDir":true,"ID":"1.665"},
{"Path":"C41","Name":"C41","Size":0,"MimeType":"inode/directory","ModTime":"2022-06-07T13:35:33Z","IsDir":true,"ID":"1.674"},
{"Path":"C42","Name":"C42","Size":0,"MimeType":"inode/directory","ModTime":"2022-06-07T13:44:15Z","IsDir":true,"ID":"1.683"},
{"Path":"C43","Name":"C43","Size":0,"MimeType":"inode/directory","ModTime":"2022-06-08T09:20:18Z","IsDir":true,"ID":"1.698"},
{"Path":"C50","Name":"C50","Size":0,"MimeType":"inode/directory","ModTime":"2022-06-08T11:09:09Z","IsDir":true,"ID":"1.713"},
...
```

### Listing Files and Folders as a Tree

Similar to the linux [tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tree_(command))
command, rclone can render files and folder as a tree as well. Note that this
only starts to render the output when all the relevant files have been
inspected. Hence this command can take a while on large folders.

Options: `-d`, `-s`, ...

```shell
$ rclone tree vault:/C100
/
├── a
│   └── myblog
│       ├── content
│       │   └── blog
│       └── templates
├── b
│   ├── _index.md
│   ├── base.html
│   ├── blog-page.html
│   ├── blog.html
│   ├── config.toml
│   ├── first.md
│   ├── index.html
│   ├── second.md
│   └── third.txt
├── c
│   └── myblog
│       ├── content
│       │   └── blog
│       └── templates
└── d
    ├── _index.md
    ├── base.html
    ├── blog-page.html
    ├── blog.html
    ├── config.toml
    ├── first.md
    ├── index.html
    ├── second.md
    └── third.txt

12 directories, 18 files
```

### Creating Collections and Folder

Collections and folders are handled transparently (e.g. first path component
will be the name of the collection, and anything below: folders).

* [x] mkdir

```shell
$ rclone mkdir vault:/X1
```

By default, behaviour is similar to `mkdir -p`, i.e. parents are created, if
they do not exist:

```shell
$ rclone mkdir vault:/X2/a/b/c
```

### Depositing / Uploading files and directories

* [x] copy
* [x] copyto
* [x] copyurl

Copy operations to vault will create directories as needed:

```shell
$ rclone copy ~/tmp/somedir vault:/ExampleCollection/somedir
```

If you configure other remotes, like Dropbox, Google Drive, Amazon S3, etc. you
can copy files directly from there to Vault (note that currently the
transferred files need to be stored temporarily on the machine that runs
vault).

```shell
$ rclone copy dropbox:/iris-data.csv vault:/C104
```

#### Resuming an Interrupted Deposit

It is possible to resume an interrupted deposit.

Assuming we want to copy local path "A" to vault "B" - we can start a deposit by
copying files. You'll see the deposit id logged to the terminal (e.g. 742):

```shell
$ rclone copy A vault:/B
<5>NOTICE: vault (v1): deposit registered: 742
...
```

You can interrupt the deposit e.g. with CTRL-C. To resume, add the
`--vault-resume-deposit-id` flag:

```shell
$ rclone copy A vault:/B --vault-resume-deposit-id 742
```

Note that resuming only makes sense when the source and destination path are the same.

### Sync

* [x] sync

Sync is similar to copy, can be used to successively sync file to vault.

```
$ rclone sync ~/tmp/somedir vault:/ExampleCollection/somedir
```

### Downloading Files and Folders

* [x] copy

Copy can be used to copy a file or folder from vault to local disk.

```
$ rclone copy vault:/ExampleCollection/somedir ~/tmp/somecopy
```

### Streaming Files

* [x] cat

```
$ rclone cat vault:/ExampleCollection/somedir/f.txt
```

### Deleting Files and Folders

* [x] delete

```
$ rclone delete vault:/C123/a/f.txt
```

A whole folder or collection can be deleted as well.

```
$ rclone delete vault:/C123
```

### Show Disk Usage

* [x] ncdu

Similar to [ncdu](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ncdu), rclone can show what
dirs consume most disk space.

```
$ rclone ncdu vault:/
```

Works for folders as well. Running this against large collections may take a while.

### Listing Hashes

* [x] md5sum
* [x] sha1sum
* [x] hashsum

Vault keeps track of MD5, SHA1 and SHA256 of objects and rclone is natively interested in those.

```
$ rclone md5sum vault:/
d41d8cd98f00b204e9800998ecf8427e  C103/testing-touch.txt
127a60cc6951b43d8ec9f2fbc566f53d  C102/base.org
d6c43639164bd159609fde47ae1477cc  C102/uuuu.txt
2b26b72ff91209f42e05a69c5bbff249  240/magentacloud.zip
c4b44a7043b45e0e03664827874739c9  240/Zwyns_Lbova_2018.pdf
275cc2f7f947d45c8a632dab13a8522c  240/midas.pdf
...

$ rclone sha1sum vault:/C100
a2b0031c595250996b9fd671ba543a5178a86c02  d/blog.html
e38c7b27a15bb492766686bc61cf27765f34f97e  d/base.html
785096246f488bce480e8fadcd7d4e7863c08773  d/config.toml
be3ad0ee54239c370d616b60f02736dd10137dc7  d/second.md
...

$ rclone hashsum sha256 vault:/C100
59739d7135e335183b260fa83428df7d2fba108f8398a4a21ef1da706315f2f1  d/blog.html
3aafe178d8e5bb9994bc2ecc0feb92eb63adc3023fdf0901c10bbe906542d05b  d/base.html
0d0a57a6ecb72d8f9fffb6b092037a99490d1fe20a30675b29caa0e24008dd28  d/blog-page.html
a6cfd6fc383e5856da20444a633ee5e4c23b603b27f807459186118035ed2441  d/first.md
4d3eedec138894549365ce82b54e39c79af7da4146d4d39855756623c5aad8e5  d/second.md
...
```

### Vault Specific Commands

Backends can implement custom commands.

#### Deposit Status (ds, dst, deposit-status)

For vault we currently have a single command, that returns the deposit status,
given the deposit id (e.g. 742).

```shell
$ rclone backend ds vault:/ 742
```

# Misc

## Building the custom rclone binary from source

Building requires the Go toolchain installed.

```
$ git clone git@github.com:internetarchive/rclone.git
$ cd rclone
$ git checkout ia-wt-1168
$ make
$ ./rclone version
rclone v1.59.0-beta.6244.66b9ef95f.sample
- os/version: ubuntu 20.04 (64 bit)
- os/kernel: 5.13.0-48-generic (x86_64)
- os/type: linux
- os/arch: amd64
- go/version: go1.18.3
- go/linking: dynamic
- go/tags: none
```

## Debug output

To show debug output, append `-v` or `-vv` to the command.

## TODO

A few issues to address.

* [x] issue with `max-depth`
* [ ] ncdu performance
* [x] resumable deposits
* [ ] cli access to various reports (fixity, ...)
* [ ] test harness
* [ ] full read-write support for "mount" and "serve" mode

## Forum

* [x] Trying to move from "atexit" to "Shutdown", but that would require additional
changes, discussing it here:
[https://forum.rclone.org/t/support-for-returning-and-error-from-atexit-handlers-and-batch-uploads/31336](https://forum.rclone.org/t/support-for-returning-and-error-from-atexit-handlers-and-batch-uploads/31336)
